Technological progression has centered around making our lives easier for a long time, not only is that what people strive to discover the most but it is also the most profitable innovation. Therefore it comes as no surprise that something like artificial intelligence, an algorithm which can mimic conversation, critical thinking, image and video creation, and complex problem solving tasks has become the defining technology of the 2020s. If I want to, say, get the answer to a homework question, instead of solving it myself, I can simply copy and paste a LaTeX code rendition of the problem and have Chat GPT or Grok solve the problem for me. Pretty great. The issue of course arises when you consider the reprecussions of using such a tool to ease your personal workload, especially in school. You are losing your capacity to think critically, and for me, someone who aspires to be an engineer, critical thinking is an important skill that I need to improve, to grow to rely on AI for. If we begin to depend on AI for everything we do, then we have lost our ability to think for ourselves, an action that is incredibly precious and a core part of being human. 

I think of all the innovations before AI that have made our lives easier, such as the internet, the microprocessor, steam engines, etc. Each had the goal taking dificult tasks and making them easier, creating a way to solve hard problems in a less time consuming way. These inventions, especially the moden ones in the digital age, have been created with the goal of giving us both literal and intellectural mechanical advantage. We have the highest multiplier of work finished output from the least amount of effort input. This has been harolded for a long time as the core driving principle of mankind, our trips to the stars and the golden-age of Bell Labs were exemplars of our human enginuity and creative instinct. I myself felt this was the personal purpose I had ascribed to my life, to innovate and carry on the human tradition of engineered excellence which would create a brighter future. 

We must however realize that at some point there will come a time when our technology becomes so good at multiplying our miniscule efforts, that we will lose any ability to solve hard problems ourselves and will become inextricably tied to AI as the one way in which we can hope to solve any problem besides the most elementary arithmetic. That time may have passed already, but now it's being brought to our attention by what AI has been able to accomplish and the fear of it being able to accomplish more in the future.

There are times I wonder if innovation is now driven by the innate drive to understand and create or for money, I believe it is the latter. Who benefits the most from AI? Who can benefit the most from the automation of service work and artistry? Corporations, and it is then no coincidence then that we see the large tech companies, whom hire tens of thousands of service workers, managers, engineers, sales men and women, and countless others to do work which AI could do in an dystopian tech dominated world. I think of this as the next phase of outsourcing, companies already layed off countless American workers to move to outsourcing partnerships with Tata Consultancy, Tech Mahindra, Cognizant, etc. or even set up offices in Hyderabad, Romania, or Hanoi to compensate for higher labor costs at home. Layoffs are the first method it seems in which corporations go to in order to please shareholders. This is the next step. IT workers may no longer lose jobs to Indians, but to AI models from Meta or IBM. 

One thing I have learned in the past few years is that society values art and artists far less than it values engineers. This could perhaps be a result of living in a society that places much of its value on manufactured and engineered consumer goods, such as electronics. I would argue however, that artists and engineers are two sides of the same coin, but that is a discussion for another time. What is important is that with AI art, I interpret its prevelance to not be a coincidence or byproduct of advances elsewhere in machine learning models, but rather a concerted effort to replace artists. Of course AI art is meaningless, and is trained off of real art by real artists, but the point is not to create real art with real meaning but to create images and videos that can imitate artistic vision well enough that if you don't think too hardly about it you would mistake it for real art. Companies at their core care most about their bottom line, and as such it is a foregone conclusion to me that they will slowly layoff graphic designers, UI/UX designers, effects specialists, animators, etc. I don't think it will be catastrophic in proportion, since the internet most of the time loses the perspective on all things it is upset about, but it will be a problem, and will need to be adressed. How can we address it though? I can see no other way than either corporate pacts, which are notoriously flimsy and fickler, or legislation, which will only happen after it is too late.

